---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Josiah Wolf Oberholtzer is a composer and researcher, born in Boston in 1984.

His music has been played in the US, Germany and Israel. His most recent
acoustic work, Aurora, a 22-voice string orchestra piece, was commissioned by
Ensemble Kaleidoskop for a festival commemorating the 10th anniversary of the
death of Iannis Xenakis. It was premiered in Berlin's Kammermusiksaal in August
of 2011.

Other works include:

- Aqua magnanimitatis (2013) for 32-channel tape,
- In the tall grasses (2012) for 32-channel tape,
- Red Steam (2011) for 8-channel tape and video,

His research interests range over live electronics, algorithmic composition,
music-informatics and audio analysis.

For several years he has collaborated with saxophonist Eliot Gattegno on SASHA,
an interactive database of saxophone multiphonics, searchable by both pitch and
idiomatic information, and has presented on the same in the Harvard Digital
Musicology series. In 2012, with composers Trevor Bača and Jeffrey Treviño, he
toured throughout the UC campuses, presenting on Abjad, a Python package for
formalized score control. In 2009, at the Visiones Sonaras festival hosted by
CMMAS in Morelia, Mexico, he presented on the use of particle systems as
high-dimensional parameter control in electro-acoustic music.

He also works as a sound designer, helping other composers realize the
electronic aspects of their compositions. Recent collaborations include Edgar
Barroso's Ataraxia for percussion solo and live electronics, Ann Cleare's eyam
iv for quartet and live electronics and Stefan Prins' Generation Kill for four
performers, four game controllers, live video and live electronics.

He is currently pursuing a doctorate in composition at Harvard University,
where he has studied with Steven Kazuo Takasugi, Hans Tutschku and Chaya
Czernowin. He has also attended the Summer Akademy at Schloss Solitude in
Stuttgart, and previously completed a Bachelors of Music at Oberlin
Conservatory in 2006, where he studied with Lewis Nielson and Randolph Coleman.

[Curriculum Vitae][cv]

[cv]: /assets/pdfs/JosiahWolfOberholtzer_CV.pdf