---
layout: page
title:  "Invisible Cities (ii): Armilla (2015)"
date:   2015-01-03 12:00:00
categories: scores
---

A viola duet, written for **Beth Weisser** and **John Pickford Richards**.

**Italo Calvino**, *Invisible Cities*:
 
> Whether Armilla is like this because it is unfinished or because it has
> been demolished, whether the cause is some enchantment or only a whim, I do
> not know. The fact remains that it has no walls, no ceilings, no floors: it
> has nothing that makes it seem a city except the water pipes that rise
> vertically where the houses should be and spread out horizontally where the
> floors should be: a forest of pipes that end in taps, shouwers, spouts,
> overflows. Against the sky a lavabo's white stands out, or a bathtub, or
> some other porcelain, like late fruit still hanging from the boughs. You
> would think that the plumbers had finished their job and gone away before
> the bricklayers arrived; or else their hydraulic systems, indestructable,
> had survived a catastrophe, an earthquake, or the corrosion of termites.
> 
> Abandoned before or after it was inhabited, Armilla cannot be called
> deserted. At any hour, raising your eyes among the pipes, you are likely to
> glimpse a young woman, or many young women, slender, not tall of stature,
> luxuriating in the bathtubs or arching their backs under the showers
> suspended in the void, washing or drying or perfuming themselves, or
> combing their long hair at a mirror. In the sun, the threads of water
> fanning from the showers glisten, the jets of the taps, the spurts, the
> splases, the sponges' suds.
>
> I have come to this explaination: the streams of water channeled in the
> pipes of Armilla have remained in th posession of nymphs and naiads.
> Accustomed to traveling along underground veins, they found it easy to
> enter the new aquatic realm, to burst from multiple fountains, to find new
> mirrors, new games, new ways of enjoying the water. Their invasion may have
> driven out the human beings, or Armilla may have been built by humans as a
> votive offering to win the favor of the nymphs, offended at the misuse of
> the waters. In any case, now they seem content, these maidens: in the
> morning you hear them singing.

**Ursula Le Guin**, *The Farthest Shore*:

> The dunes ran inland, low and grassy, for half a mile or so, and then there
> were lagoons, thick with sedge and saltreeds, and beyond those, low hills
> lay yellow-brown and empty out of sight. Beautiful and desolate was
> Selidor. Nowhere on it was there any mark of man, his work or habitation.
> There were no beasts to be seen, and the reed-filled lakes bore no flocks
> of gulls or wild geese or any bird.

Source for **Armilla** is available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/josiah-wolf-oberholtzer/armilla).